Update relational-vs-nosql-data.md (#41641)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/cloud-native/relational-vs-nosql-data.md

ms.date: 04/06/2022
---

# SQL vs. NoSQL data

[!INCLUDE [download-alert](includes/download-alert.md)]

Relational (SQL) and non-relational (NoSQL) are two types of database systems commonly implemented in cloud-native apps. They're built differently, store data differently, and accessed differently. In this section, we'll look at both. Later in this chapter, we'll look at an emerging database technology called *NewSQL*.

*Relational databases* have been a prevalent technology for decades. They're mature, proven, and widely implemented. Competing database products, tooling, and expertise abound. Relational databases provide a store of related data tables. These tables have a fixed schema, use SQL (Structured Query Language) to manage data, and support ACID guarantees: atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The theorem states that distributed data systems will offer a trade-off between consistency, availability, and partition tolerance. And, that any database can only guarantee *two* of the three properties:

> - *Consistency.* Every node in the cluster responds with the most recent data, even if the system must block the request until all replicas update. If you query a "consistent system" for an item that is currently updating, you'll wait for that response until all replicas successfully update. However, you'll receive the most current data. Note that "consistency" as defined by CAP theorem is technically different from "consistency" as defined in ACID guarantees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Consistency.* Every node in the cluster responds with the most recent data, even if the system must block the request until all replicas update. If you query a "consistent system" for an item that is currently updating, you'll wait for that response until all replicas successfully update. However, you'll receive the most current data. It should be understood that the term "consistency" as it's used in the context of the CAP theorem has a technical meaning that is distinct from the way "consistency" is defined in the context of ACID guarantees.
```
